Volkswagens small hatchback has suffered
something of an identity crisis here in
the state first it was called the rabbit
then the golf then the rabbit and now
it's the golf again
but no matter what you call it this
small hatchback offers a lot we tested
two golf's one of them was an automatic
with the base five cylinder gasoline
engine the other one was a Golf TDI that
one has a turbo diesel and we bought
ours with a stick shift the TDI diesel
engine it gets incredible fuel economy
we got 38 miles per gallon over on our
tests and nearly 50 on the highway
that's really impressive forget about
the smoky smelly slow loud diesel
engines of old this engine is quite
refined
in fact it's basically as quiet as the
gasoline engine this diesel provides
pretty good power it's certainly not
slow but the gearing of the manual
transmission it's more inclined to fuel
economy rather than out-and-out
acceleration so you might have to
downshift in order to maintain speed but
that's not really a big deal with the
stick shift clutch pedal travel it's a
bit long and also the diesel it's a bit
easy to stall when you're first learning
to drive it the base 5 cylinder engine
has plenty of power car feels peppy it's
enjoyable to drive but the engines not
that refined it has something of a
course note to it also fuel economy
really isn't that impressive for a small
car this engine is probably this cars
biggest shortcoming on the plus side no
matter what golf you buy they're all
really enjoyable to drive the handling
it's nimble its agile the steering is
quick and responsive there's not much
body lean at all stability control a
standard that makes you emergency
handling simple and secure the golf
rides like a big car and that's a good
thing it soaks up the bumps really well
and it feels solid and secure on the
highway it's also pretty quiet in here
there's not much road noise inside the
golf feels you've grown up in solid it's
a high-quality interior with lots of
soft touch pieces and they all fit
together well there's also a good room
inside of the small car
plenty of headroom decent legroom but
the console it gets in the way of knee
room a bit one place though where there
isn't a lot of room is in the seats at
least sports seats they're very
supportive they hold you in place really
well in the corners but they're on the
narrow side controls are pretty simple
the radio is up high in the dashboard
with big knobs and buttons the TDI has a
touch screen radio that's a little bit
more complex but it's still pretty
simple but no matter what golf you buy
the climate control knobs they're hard
to read the golf's hatchback body style
it gives you a lot of versatility with
the back seats folded down you can fit
large items in here but when those seats
are folded up there's good room in the
back for passengers so the Volkswagen
Golf gives you a lot it's a lot of fun
to drive it also has a well crafted
versatile interior plus if you get the
diesel engine it has excellent fuel
economy
you